stardate 50460.3.
Captain's log,
JANEWAY:
We've been investigating
an "inversion nebula"
for several days.
This phenomenon has never been
seen in the Alpha Quadrant
and is proving something
of a mystery to us here.
Federation astro-theorists,
According to
inversion nebulae
are so unstable,
they're supposed to burn out
within a few years, but...
to be centuries old.
this one appears
Maybe the theorists
were wrong.
to look at the real thing.
They never had a chance
Not entirely wrong.
These plasma strands
we're approaching
look ready to ignite.
Tom, back us off
2,000 kilometers.
That will give us
a safety margin.
Aye, captain.
Harry, set the sensors
for full-spectrum scans,
continuous sweep.
If that nebula does flare up,
I don't want to miss a beat.
Mr. Kim, I need your attention
on the sensors.
Sorry, captain.
Full-spectrum scans.
I'm on it.
Astro-theory never predicted
this would be so lovely.
a tantalizing combination.
Beauty and mystery--
No argument here.
Right, Tuvok?
of appreciating this phenomenon
I am fully capable
without the extraneous
sentimentality
humans find so necessary.
Being moved by an emotion
isn't always extraneous.
Sometimes it's the whole point.
( door chimes )
Enter.
Mr. Kim.
Can I help you?
Um...
that's kal-toh, isn't it?
Vulcan chess?
Kal-toh is to chess
to tic-tac-toe.
as chess is
I should have known. Uh...
What is on your
mind, ensign?
Tuvok, I need your help.
I want to eliminate emotions
like Vulcans do.
lifelong process.
Mr. Kim, it is a
I realize that,
and I also know
certain techniques.
that Vulcans use
The t'an s'at,
the intellectual
deconstruction
of emotional patterns.
I'm willing to learn.
May I ask why?
I have...
I don't want to have.
feelings
to be self-evident.
That would seem
And what is the nature
of those feelings?
I... I'm in love
and I don't want to be.
I see.
And who is the object
of your affections?
Her name is... Marayna.
on the ship with that name.
I am not aware of anyone
She's not a member of the crew.
She's a character
on the holodeck.
with a computer subroutine?
You're in love
That's the problem.
Interesting.
To see through an
emotional complex
of its power.
is to rob it
The first step is to
identify the complex
have been caught.
in which you
I told you, I'm in love.
There are many different
kinds of love, ensign.
to differentiate.
You must learn
that you met this individual
For example, you told me
you feel overwhelmed.
only days ago, yet
I can't get her out of my mind,
not for a second.
Have you been
able to sleep?
No.
Have you eaten?
Does your daily routine
seem somehow empty?
Perhaps even ludicrous?
Yes!
You are experiencing
shon-ha'lock.
It is the most intense
The engulfment.
perilous form of Eros.
and psychologically
I believe humans call it
"love at first sight."
But... we're talking
about a holodeck character.
The emotional complex
Irrelevant.
trapped is the same
in which you are
Logical deconstruction
and so is the cure.
of meditative suppression
followed by a regimen
as I shall demonstrate.
Uh, a little further
to the left.
No. That's too much.
Neelix.
KIM:
Have you seen Marayna?
Oh... perfect!
Welcome, gentlemen.
Just getting
things ready
little get-together.
for tonight's
I completely forgot,
the luau.
I've done my research.
Polynesian-style.
you neglected to R.S.V.P.
Uh, Lieutenant Tuvok,
That was not an oversight,
I assure you.
Where is Marayna?
Who?
She's part of
this program.
Doesn't ring a bell.
How could you miss her?
She's tall, athletic, blond.
entertainment directors.
Oh, one of the
I believe she's giving Kes
a hydro-sail lesson.
Uh, no, no, not there.
There.
The lake is perfect today.
Harry. Tuvok.
Hi, Marayna.
Hello, Harry.
We were just talking about you.
You were?
Marayna said what
an excellent student you were.
She's a great instructor.
your ears wet?
Ready to get
Vulcans do not hydro-sail.
Oh, why not?
prefers the solitude
Lieutenant Tuvok
and a game of kal-toh.
of his own quarters
I'm sure we can do
better than that.
on duty. Thanks.
I'm going back
You're welcome.
starting down on the sand.
There's a volleyball game
would prefer some conversation.
Mr. Kim and I
Would you care to join us?
All right.
curl this morning.
I tried a reverse
I pulled a tendon.
I think
Feel that.
It's like a knot.
I'm sure it is.
Are you two friends?
No.
Yes.
We're colleagues.
I respect Mr. Kim
for his intelligence
and his integrity
and I assume he holds me
in the same regard.
So Vulcans don't hydro-sail,
and they don't have friends?
We have fellowships
and associations,
but without
the emotional dimension
humans experience.
Hmm. You and I are friends,
aren't we?
Um... y-yeah.
Good.
Chakotay to Tuvok and Kim.
Report to the bridge.
We're on our way.
Acknowledged.
There's a luau tonight.
You're coming, aren't you?
Both of you?
No.
Yes.
You've got to stop doing that.
Ensign.
As I predicted,
your responses were as formulaic
as a mathematical equation.
What do you mean?
Consider the expression
on your face
when Neelix did not recall
Marayna--annoyance.
It is quite true.
That's not true.
Neelix was functioning
At that moment,
in Vulcan terms,
as the soo-lak--
The third party, who by
his very lack of interest
trivializes your own.
I guess it did bother me.
And the arrival of Kes
with Marayna
in you the k'oh-nar--
then precipitated
The feeling of being
completely exposed.
I was embarrassed.
I was sure Kes
would take one look at my face
and know exactly what
I was feeling.
hand on her stressed tendon...
And when Marayna placed your
Let's not even talk
about that.
Bridge.
It's all so...
predictable.
That's just what
I've been trying
to get you to perceive.
Vulcan intellect
To the trained
intense romantic love
is nothing more
stereotypical behaviors.
than a set of
Not having our discipline,
swept along by the process
typically, humans are
until it ends.
How does it end?
Either in conversion
to a more balanced
stable relationship
or in tragic circumstances.
I can't have a balanced,
stable relationship
with a holodeck character.
Marayna's a computer program.
She could never feel for me
what I feel for her.
Exactly. Logic dictates
of action-- retreat.
a single course
To tell you the truth...
I don't even like
hydro-sailing.
5,000 degrees kelvin
The temperature's
and rising.
Captain?
a plasma strand
We've located
it's seconds from igniting.
that looks like
There is some kind of
unknown process
that's been keeping
this nebula
We're going to see it in action.
from going up like a torch.
And if there isn't?
I've got my hand
on the controls.
We'll be out of here before it
even touches our shields.
Captain, the temperature
is 9,000 degrees kelvin.
a subatomic cascade reaction.
I'm picking up
There she goes.
The plasma strand completely
burned itself out.
Without causing a chain reaction
in the nebula.
Harry, what put out
the flames?
Sensors show some kind
of dampening effect
but I can't isolate it.
between the strands,
Like a firebreak
in space.
how this happened
If we understood
to find a new way
we might be able
a warp core breach.
to contain
Or any plasma reaction.
It's an investigation
worth pursuing.
Tom, it seems safe enough.
Take us in for
short-range sensor scans.
Let's find out all we can
about this phenomenon.
Aye, captain.
I'll see all of you
at Mr. Neelix's luau.
I'm sure everyone
will be attending.
you look absolutely...
Lieutenant,
More along the lines
Tropical?
of "smashing."
Thanks.
Of course, nothing can quite
measure up with this shirt.
an exact recreation
This is
of a 1962 big daddy-o
surf special.
An American classic.
I'd say you put
just a little bit too much
thought into that.
Now that's where
you're wrong.
Let's go. I told Vorik we'd pick
him up at 1600 hours.
how Vulcan he gets
And you know
when anybody is late.
Vorik? I thought
we were meeting Harry.
Why not?
Oh, he's not coming.
He said he was busy.
With what?
I don't know.
you and Vorik at the luau.
Harry and I will meet
You're pretty confident about
your powers of persuasion.
Yes, I am.
( chiming )
Come in.
Surf's up, Mr. Kim.
Hi, Tom.
Harry, this is a luau.
dressed for a funeral.
You look like you're
What are you doing?
Vulcan meditation.
What for?
To suppress my emotions.
( scoffs )
Is something wrong?
Not really.
The... resort woman?
What was her name?
Marayna.
How did you know that?
For two days now every time
I look for you
it's always,
"he's in holodeck one."
And since you don't like
hydro-sailing
I figured something
was going on.
Am I that predictable?
You sound like Tuvok.
Tuvok? He told you
to do all this?
Logically, the best
course is retreat.
Retreat.
Meditation helps.
A classic case of Vulcan denial
if you ask me.
Come on, Harry.
We've all fallen
for a holodeck character.
You deal with it
It happens.
your normal routine,
by staying with
not by hiding out
in your quarters.
I'm not hiding out.
the emotional complex.
I'm deconstructing
Okay.
Have fun.
No, wait.
Computer, standard illumination.
I'm getting tired
of this anyway.
Computer,
one Hawaiian shirt...
Specify parameters.
COMPUTER:
Pineapple motif.
No, thank you.
Greetings, Mr. Vulcan.
of ethnographic research
I've done a great deal
on the Polynesian
cultures of earth.
The flowered garland--
Or lei--
the flowering of love.
is said to represent
It's a marvelous tradition,
don't you think?
Marvelous.
Oh... Oh, my.
a centerpiece that big?
Did I program
Computer, open parameter
adjustment file.
a recreational hologram--
The life of
nonrestrictive clothing...
Dining, dancing,
I see the allure.
Your turn.
Hmm.
Oh, thank you.
Tuvok...
to see you here.
I'm glad
disobey an order, captain,
I would never
no matter how burdensome.
There's a difference between
an order and a suggestion.
lieutenant. Let's mingle.
The evening's young,
Vulcans do not...
Curious.
What's that?
CHAKOTAY:
If you will excuse me.
among novice players.
A common error
By placing the t'an
on opposite sides
of the kal-toh
you are attempting to introduce
a spatial balance.
A strategy that will
most certainly fail.
Why?
Kal-toh is not
about striving for balance.
It is about finding
the seeds of order
of profound chaos.
even in the midst
Please.
May I?
How beautiful.
Kal-toh is not
about beauty.
but it's still beautiful.
I understand,
to play on Vulcan?
Did you learn
Yes. From the age of 5
I took lessons
from a master.
I thought you might enjoy
having an opponent.
a little predictable sometimes.
Playing alone must get
You are perceptive.
Yes, I am. Extremely so.
Aloha, miss.
Thank you.
Sir?
No, thank you.
You're the only one here
not wearing a garland.
Given the decor
somehow excessive.
it seems
I don't believe you.
I beg your pardon.
I think you're trying
to isolate yourself
and make a public protest
at the same time.
Explain.
You didn't want to be here
in the first place.
Being the only one without a lei
sets you apart
from the others,
allowing you
to symbolically maintain
your solitude.
And since everybody can see
that you're
the only one without a lei,
you're letting them know
that you'd rather
be somewhere else.
Your logic is impeccable.
Thanks.
Mmm.
I am starving.
Let's find us a spot.
Oh, me too.
is filling up fast.
This place
taken the liberty
I have already
of reserving a table,
lieutenant,
of the lakeside.
with a view
You did express
a fondness
particular vista.
for that
I did?
Five days ago in a conversation
we had in engineering
holodeck programs.
regarding
I guess maybe I did.
Good memory.
Of course.
Well then, ensign...
let's go.
Harry.
What?
Do you want to get
something to eat, or not?
I... I don't know.
isn't a good idea.
Maybe this
back to my quarters.
Listen, I'm going
Tom...
Harry...
Okay.
I'll see you tomorrow.
I like the excitement
of the water.
The danger...
being tossed around...
by the wind and the waves.
But at the same time
I'm in control.
feeling like
The illusion of control.
That's exactly right.
Because no one
can control
the wind or the waves.
But for a few moments
when you're on the water
and the ride is perfect,
the feeling is that you can.
Do you ever feel that?
No.
Never?
an imagination?
Don't you have
you mean the ability
If, by imagination
to spontaneously
generate images within my mind,
then, yes, I have
a highly developed imagination,
as do all of my race.
imagine this--
All right,
that you, with your logic
and your reason
endless waves of emotion.
are skimming atop
you're in control,
You believe
but you know the control
is an illusion.
You believe that
you understand
beneath you...
the depths
but that, too,
is an illusion.
I can see why ensign Kim
finds you compelling.
Harry admires...
I can see why
and respects you.
Because it's obvious
that he does.
And... so do I.
to my quarters.
I must return
Please stay.
anyone like you.
I've never met
I share that conclusion.
I must admit
a unique individual.
You are
Then stay.
It is late.
I must go.
Then come back
tomorrow.
I'm sure the weather
will hold.
No doubt.
Please.
Perhaps.
Good night... Tuvok.
Good night, Marayna.
end resort program.
Computer,
Captain's log,
supplemental:
JANEWAY:
we've completed sensor scans
of an unusual dampening field
and confirmed our discovery
responsible for keeping
this unstable nebula
from going up in flames.
The field's origin
is still a mystery.
The dampening field
only seems to appear
the plasma strands ignites,
when one of
as if the fire itself
initiates the field.
Which puts out the fire.
A feedback loop.
One that's preserved this nebula
for hundreds of years.
Mr. Kim, do we have enough data
on this dampening field
to produce a field artificially
using the deflector dish?
Harry, do we have the data?
but it'll take a while.
Yes, captain,
the process in the computer
We'll have to simulate
and then try to re-create it
with the deflector dish.
Probably a few weeks.
is yours, ensign.
The project
the Alpha Quadrant. Warp six.
Tom, resume course for
Aye, captain.
Captain, propulsion
is not responding.
B'Elanna, what's going on?
Bridge to engineering.
I'm not sure, captain.
We're trying to track
the problem now.
Harry, give B'Elanna a hand.
Acknowledged.
could be having an effect
The nebula
on the ship's systems.
That's a possibility
we can't discount.
The warp drive is functioning
within established
Matter/anti-matter containment
tolerance levels.
is at recommended
field strength.
The impulse engines
are also...
Within tolerance.
Yes.
Most likely, there's
some kind of failure
in the computer
pathways.
with propulsion,
Nothing's wrong
but the commands
from the helm
getting there.
just aren't
The warp drive seems okay.
Impulse too.
must be somewhere else.
I think the problem
the helm's being blocked.
I think maybe...
Like... some kind of failure
in the computer pathways?
Maybe.
You're not listening, Harry.
I just said all that.
to my station, lieutenant.
I'll return
I'm sorry. I guess I've got
a lot on my mind.
Forget about her.
What did Tom say to you?
Not a single word.
I saw the way
you were looking at Marayna
yesterday.
"read-me-like-a-book" Kim.
Hi. My name's Harry
It's not that bad.
Apparently, it is.
I can't get her off my mind.
Input algorithm not accepted.
COMPUTER:
Why don't you
take a break?
I can handle it
from here.
Thanks. I'll be
in my quarters if you need me.
Deck three.
Computer, belay that order.
Holodeck one.
Neelix resort program.
Computer, activate
is currently running.
That program
COMPUTER:
Hello, Harry.
Enjoying yourselves?
Now I know why
you told me
the holodeck.
to keep off
Mr. Kim, you are misconstruing
the nature of this situation.
Your jealousy
is entirely insupportable.
Stop analyzing me.
I respected you,
I trusted you,
right behind my back.
and you did this
nothing of the sort.
I have done
Then what
do you call this?
A game of kal-toh,
which I am playing
computer subroutine.
with a nonsentient
Harry, I didn't intend
to harm you,
and I didn't do
anything wrong.
I'll accept that from her,
Tuvok, but not from you.
You said to stay away from her.
You should have done the same.
a desire on my part
You're implying
does not exist.
that simply
Marayna is an intriguing
interactive hologram.
Nothing more.
If you say so, lieutenant.
working relationship.
Mr. Kim, I value our
I would not allow a holodeck
character to disrupt that.
I think it's a little late--
Tuvok, Harry, please,
stop arguing.
Computer, delete the Marayna
subroutine.
what are you...?
Tuvok,
That's not going to help.
to you in the first place.
I never should have come
worked it out myself.
I should have
Let's try it again,
Mr. Paris. Warp six.
Course laid in.
Engage.
It would appear to me that
we're not moving, Mr. Paris.
I don't understand it,
captain.
Any ideas, B'Elanna?
is still on-line
Warp drive
appears to be working,
and helm control
aren't responding.
but the engines
It's possible we've got
a computer malfunction,
but I can't seem to localize it.
Let's run a level-four
computer diagnostic,
all systems.
Aye, captain.
Captain, I just got
aft thrusters to respond.
It's not much.
I'll take it, B'Elanna.
Tom, let's go.
we'll be completely clear
At this speed,
Good enough.
of the nebula by tomorrow.
Your move.
my game has improved.
I think you'll find
How did you get here?
Simple. I transferred myself
from the holodeck
to the sick bay,
then used your physician's
mobile emitter.
I deleted you from the holodeck.
But you only did that
for Harry's benefit.
I know you wanted
to keep seeing me.
I like Harry, but, uh...
well, you're different.
You're not like anyone else.
Why have you come here...
to my quarters?
You're like a new world
to me, Tuvok.
everything about you.
I want to know
I didn't realize how lonely
my existence was,
to the way things were,
and I can't go back
not without you.
Tuvok to Bridge.
Intruder alert.
to my quarters.
Security team
( alarm blares )
No!
Why did you do that?
Don't you want us
to be together?
no choice but to consider you
Given your actions I have
to myself and to Voyager.
a potential threat
But you're wrong.
anything to harm you.
I would never do
Make it stop!
( alarm stops )
You have access to the ship's
control systems?
And I'll use them all
if I have to.
You can't just delete me.
Where is this individual now?
When security got
to Tuvok's quarters
she downloaded herself
back into the computer
and onto the holodeck.
More to the point,
what is she?
Most likely a sentient
computer program.
the Starfleet database.
I checked
has happened before.
This kind of thing
The Enterprise-D
under Picard
was once taken over
by a holo-character.
We studied that case
at the Academy.
It gained control of the ship
from inside the holodeck.
have done the same.
Marayna may well
She was able to silence
the intruder alert
by an apparent act of will.
our entire computer system?
Does she have the run of
She may.
Is it possible that
she is the source
of our mysterious
malfunctions?
It's certainly possible.
If Marayna's able to manipulate
the ship's computer pathways,
she could have
disrupted propulsion,
and then covered her tracks
so we couldn't trace the cause.
What's her motivation?
But why?
I believe it has something to do
with her feelings toward me.
reference to her loneliness
In my quarters, she made
to continue our relationship.
and expressed her desire
But what does that
have to do
with knocking propulsion
off-line?
to keep us near the nebula?
Could she be trying
the day we got here.
This all started
That's when I first met her.
Maybe the nebula is somehow
affecting the holodeck.
Giving rise to an intelligence
that doesn't belong there.
It's possible.
In any case...
I can't allow her to gain any
further control over my ship.
get down to holodeck one.
Tuvok, Paris, Torres,
I want this situation resolved
one way or another.
out of the program.
She's locked us
We'll be lucky if we
can open the doors.
We're lucky.
opened the doors.
Marayna may have
Caution is advised.
the inside control panel.
I'll try to access
It's kind of creepy.
Marayna's attempting
to re-create the setting
of my previous
encounter with her.
to pick them, Tuvok.
You really know how
to the holodeck computer.
I got access
I'm not reading anything
unusual on the holodeck.
PARIS:
working perfectly.
It seems to be
There's a subspace signal coming
from outside of Voyager.
It's some kind of an uplink.
out there tapping into the--
There's somebody on a ship
B'Elanna!
( gasping )
( grunts )
( grunting )
( gasping )
Shoot the control panel.
( coughing and gasping )
Shield status?
Still holding, captain,
dampeners are off-line.
but the inertial
are down to 80 percent.
Starboard shields
What happened
down there?
Marayna attacked us
and attempted to restrain me.
She has control over
the holodeck characters.
But she's not actually
on the holodeck.
and tracked it to the nebula.
I found an uplink
She's on a hidden ship
or a space station.
She's manipulating the holodeck
from there.
She's been using the Marayna
character like a puppet.
As an interface.
A way to move around Voyager
to interact with us.
Tuvok, come back to me.
MARAYNA:
I'm waiting for you.
Harry, try to trace the uplink.
Find her.
Don't make this more difficult
than it already is, captain.
for the plasma fires?
Are you responsible
You're giving me
no other choice
but to force the issue.
What do you want?
Tuvok. I want Tuvok.
Let him come to the holodeck
alone,
or I'll destroy your ship.
Tuvok... you're back.
I had little choice.
We're alone now.
No one can see us
or hear us.
We can do whatever we want.
You don't have to pretend
anymore.
This is our world.
You've successfully
lured me here
by threatening the ship.
But any attempt to generate
intimacy between us
will not be successful.
I've isolated the source
of the uplink signal.
Standby to transport.
your sense of duty,
I understand
to your captain,
of loyalty
something stronger.
but we have
beyond duty and loyalty.
A connection that goes
to be with me, Tuvok.
I know you want
You must leave Voyager now
and allow us to continue
on our course.
I won't.
I suggest you reconsider
will be forced to take action.
or Captain Janeway
There's nothing she can do.
You're staying here
with me.
She'll just have to accept that.
Energize.
source of the uplink.
Transporting to the
Stop!
Shields are down to 47 percent.
Try to hail Tuvok.
Shields are gone.
Something's blocking the signal.
I can't, captain.
Marayna?
Your ship is helpless.
If I ignite one more strand
the hull will fail.
You are using the nebula
as a weapon.
My nebula.
I will fire if necessary.
You're too late.
I've already set
the ignition sequence.
Only I can stop it.
( tricorder beeping )
Are you alone here...
on this station...
in this nebula?
Yes.
It's my work.
I don't understand.
I keep the plasma fires
from chain reacting.
for the dampening field
You are responsible
we've been investigating.
That's correct.
I generate it from here
to preserve the nebula
from my home planet
so that others
may enjoy its beauty.
I watch the ships
when they pass by.
They don't even know I'm here.
You are... lonely.
By choice.
I prefer to be here... alone.
with our holodeck
But you uplinked
in order to interact with us.
and created a character
I've done it before.
To amuse myself.
of a passing alien vessel,
Tapped into the computer
examined all the little details
of their lives...
but I never expected
to find something
as... diverting
as your holodeck.
I never expected
to find you.
You...
I've ever encountered...
are like nothing else
and I can't be without you.
Stay here with me
and I will let
your ship resume course.
If it is the only option
I would willingly sacrifice
myself to save my crewmates.
No! That's not enough.
You have to want to be with me.
If you truly understood
who and what I am,
never return your affections.
you would know that I could
But... you are more like me
than you are like them.
( voice breaking ):
I-I-I've seen the way
you isolate yourself.
Even in a crowd of people
you're alone.
We should be together.
I must admit...
I found our conversation
stimulating,
your insight and intelligence
fresh and unexpected.
In other circumstances,
to spend time in your company
I would be willing
to continue to share
knowledge and ideas,
but I have a home
and a spouse on Vulcan.
and colleagues who depend on me.
I have a mission
understanding of emotions,
I do not have a complete
but I believe
that if you truly care for me,
this course of action.
you will not pursue
( sighs softly )
( beeping )
You may go.
Your communicator
will function now.
Tuvok to Voyager.
Go ahead, Tuvok.
I am ready to return.
Stand by to beam me aboard.
( ship's systems powering up )
( sighs )
Captain, ship's systems
are coming back on-line.
Acknowledged, Tuvok.
Standing by.
Consider this:
your feelings toward me
of a deeper need...
may be evidence
profound loneliness
a more...
than you are willing
to admit.
Why don't you call
for a replacement.
occupy this task.
Let another
to live among your own kind.
Attempt for a time
Logically, that would be
the best thing to do.
Yes.
Perhaps I will.
Tuvok to Voyager.
Ready for transport.
But what about you, Tuvok?
Will you always be alone?
Security chief's log,
stardate 50471.3.
TUVOK:
the ship was easily repaired
The remaining damage to
Marayna's nebula behind.
and we soon left
Voyager is back on course
and I have resumed
my normal routine.
( sighs )
( door opens )
Mr. Kim.
in learning to play kal-toh?
Would you be interested
I thought kal-toh
was beyond human understanding.
Not entirely.
Ensign...
I failed to respect
the complexity of your emotions.
for my lack of consideration.
I apologize
( sighs )
Don't worry about it, Tuvok.
Apology accepted.
( turns game on )
Won't this take years to learn?
It will, indeed.
May I join you?
No.
But... thank you.
( chuckles )